Today, I want to tell you three stories from my/ life. That's it. No big deal.
Just three stories. The first story is about/ connecting the dots.
I dropped out of Reed College after the first six/ months,
but then stayed around as a drop-in for another/ 18 months or so before I really quit.
So why'd I drop out? It started before I was born./ My biological mother was a young,
unwed graduate student, and she decided to put/ me up for adoption.
She felt very strongly that I should be adopted/ by college graduates,
so everything was all set for me to be adopted at/ birth by a lawyer and his wife.
Except that when I popped out, they decided at/ the last minute that they really wanted a girl.
So my parents, who were on a waiting list, got a/ call in the middle of the night asking,
we've got an unexpected baby boy. Do you want/ him? They said, of course.
My biological mother found out later that my/ mother had never graduated from college and
that my father had never graduated from high/ school.
She refused to sign the final adoption papers./ She only relented a few months later when my
parents promised that I would go to college./ This was the start in my life. And 17 years later,
I did go to college. But I naively chose a college/ that was almost as expensive as Stanford.
And all of my working class parents' savings/ were being spent on my college tuition.
After six months, I couldn't see the value in it./ I had no idea what I wanted to do with my life,
and no idea how college was going to help me/ figure it out. And here I was,
spending all the money my parents had saved/ their entire life.
So I decided to drop out and trust that it would/ all work out okay.
It was pretty scary at the time, but looking/ back,
it was one of the best decisions I ever made. The/ minute I dropped out,
I could stop taking the required classes that/ didn't interest me and begin dropping in on the
ones that looked far more interesting. It/ wasn't all romantic. I didn't have a dorm room,
so I slept on the floor in friends' rooms. I/ returned Coke bottles for the five-cent
deposits to buy food with. And I would walk the/ seven miles across town every Sunday night to
get one good meal a week at the Hare Krishna/ temple. I loved it.
And much of what I stumbled into by following my/ curiosity and intuition turned out to be
priceless later on. Let me give you one example./ Reed College at that time offered perhaps the
best calligraphy instruction in the country./ Throughout the campus, every poster,
every label on every drawer was beautifully/ hand calligraphed.
Because I had dropped out and didn't have to take/ the normal classes,
I decided to take a calligraphy class to learn/ how to do this.
I learned about serif and sans-serif/ typefaces,
about varying the amount of space between/ different letter combinations,
about what makes great typography great. It was/ beautiful, historical,
artistically subtle in a way that science can't/ capture, and I found it fascinating.
None of this had even a hope of any practical/ application in my life. But 10 years later,
when we were designing the first Macintosh/ computer, it all came back to me.
And we designed it all into the Mac. It was the/ first computer with beautiful typography.
If I had never dropped in on that single course in/ college,
the Mac would have never had multiple typefaces/ or proportionally spaced fonts.
And since Windows just copied the Mac, it's/ likely that no personal computer would have
them. If I had never dropped out, I would have/ never dropped in on that calligraphy class,
and personal computers might not have the/ wonderful typography that they do. Of course,
it was impossible to connect the dots looking/ forward when I was in college, but it was very,
very clear looking backwards 10 years later./ Again,
you can't connect the dots looking forward. You/ can only connect them looking backwards.
So you have to trust that the dots will somehow/ connect in your future.
You have to trust in something, your gut,/ destiny, life, karma, whatever,
because believing that the dots will connect/ down the road will give you the confidence to
follow your heart even when it leads you off the/ well-worn path,
and that will make all the difference. My second/ story is about love and loss. I was lucky.
I found what I love to do early in life. Woz and I/ started Apple in my parents' garage when I was
20. We worked hard, and in 10 years, Apple had/ grown from just the two of us in a garage into a $2
billion company with over 4,000 employees./ We'd just released our finest creation,
the Macintosh, a year earlier, and I'd just/ turned 30. And then I got fired.
How can you get fired from a company you started?/ Well, as Apple grew,
we hired someone who I thought was very talented/ to run the company with me.
And for the first year or so, things went well./ But then our visions of the future began to
diverge, and eventually we had a falling out./ When we did,
our board of directors sided with him. And so at/ 30, I was out, and very publicly out.
What had been the focus of my entire adult life/ was gone, and it was devastating.
I really didn't know what to do for a few months. I/ felt that I had let the previous generation of
entrepreneurs down, that I had dropped the/ baton as it was being passed to me.
I met with David Packard and Bob Noyce and tried/ to apologize for screwing up so badly.
I was a very public failure and I even thought/ about running away from the valley.
But something slowly began to dawn on me. I still/ loved what I did.
The turn of events at Apple had not changed that/ one bit. I'd been rejected,
but I was still in love. And so I decided to start/ over. I didn't see it then,
but it turned out that getting fired from Apple/ was the best thing that could have ever happened
to me. The heaviness of being successful was/ replaced by the lightness of being a beginner
again, less sure about everything. It freed me/ to enter one of the most creative periods of my
life. During the next five years, I started a/ company named Next,
another company named Pixar, and fell in love/ with an amazing woman who would become my wife.
Pixar went on to create the world's first/ computer animated feature film, Toy Story,
and is now the most successful animation studio/ in the world. In a remarkable turn of events,
Apple bought NeXT, and I returned to Apple, and/ the technology we developed at NeXT is at the
heart of Apple's current renaissance. And/ Lorene and I have a wonderful family together.
I'm pretty sure none of this would have happened/ if I hadn't been fired from Apple.
It was awful tasting medicine, but I guess the/ patient needed it.
Sometimes life's gonna hit you in the head with a/ brick. Don't lose faith.
I'm convinced that the only thing that kept me/ going was that I loved what I did.
You've got to find what you love, and that is as/ true for work as it is for your lovers.
Your work is going to fill a large part of your/ life,
and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do/ what you believe is great work,
and the only way to do great work is to love what/ you do. If you haven't found it yet,
keep looking, and don't settle. As with all/ matters of the heart,
you'll know when you find it. And like any great/ relationship,
it just gets better and better as the years roll/ on. So keep looking, don't settle.
My third story is about death. When I was 17, I/ read a quote that went something like,
if you live each day as if it was your last,/ someday you'll most certainly be right.
It made an impression on me, and since then, for/ the past 33 years,
I've looked in the mirror every morning and/ asked myself,
if today were the last day of my life, would I want/ to do what I am about to do today?
And whenever the answer has been no for too many/ days in a row, I know I need to change something.
Remembering that I'll be dead soon is the most/ important tool I've ever encountered to help me
make the big choices in life. Because almost/ everything, all external expectations,
all pride, all fear of embarrassment or/ failure,
these things just fall away in the face of death./ leaving only what is truly important.
Remembering that you are going to die is the best/ way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have
something to lose. You are already naked. There/ is no reason not to follow your heart.
No one wants to die. Even people who want to go to/ heaven don't want to die to get there. And yet,
death is the destination we all share. No one has/ ever escaped it. And that is as it should be,
because death is very likely the single best/ invention of life. It's life's change agent.
It clears out the old to make way for the new./ Right now, the new is you. But someday,
not too long from now, you will gradually become/ the old and be cleared away.
Sorry to be so dramatic, but it's quite true./ Your time is limited,
so don't waste it living someone else's life./ Don't be trapped by dogma,
which is living with the results of other/ people's thinking.
Don't let the noise of others' opinions drown/ out your own inner voice. And most important,
have the courage to follow your heart and/ intuition.
They somehow already know what you truly want to/ become. Everything else is secondary.
Stay hungry, stay foolish.